=================================
OpenStack DefCore 2015.next
=================================

Status: Draft
Replaces: 2015.03

This document outlines the mandatory and advisory capabilities
required to exist in a software installation in order to be
eligible to use marks controlled by the OpenStack Foundation.

This document supersedes the companion JSON version.

Releases Covered
==============================
Applies to Havana, Icehouse


Platform Components
==============================
Required: Compute and Object

Advisory: None

Deprecated: None

Removed: None

Compute Component Capabilities
==============================

========================  ====================
Capability Name            Associated Project
------------------------  --------------------
compute-auth                  Nova
compute-flavors               Nova
compute-images                Nova
compute-instance-actions      Nova
compute-keypairs              Nova
compute-quotas                Nova
compute-servers               Nova
compute-volume                Nova
images-v2                     Glance
========================  ====================

Advisory Capabilities
------------------------------

========================  ====================
Capability Name               Associated Project
------------------------  --------------------
auth-token                Keystone
compute-servers-metadata  Nova
========================  ====================

Deprecated Capabilities
------------------------------
None.

Removed Capabilities
------------------------------

None.


Object Component Capabilities
==============================

========================  ====================
Capability Name            Associated Project
------------------------  --------------------
objectstore-object         Swift
========================  ====================

Advisory Capabilities
------------------------------
None.

Deprecated Capabilities
------------------------------
None.

Removed Capabilities
------------------------------
None.


Designated Sections
==============================

The following designated sections apply to the same releases as
this specification.

* Nova is by default designated except scheduler, filter, drivers, API
  extensions and networking.
* Glance designated sections are the API implementation code and domain model.
* Swift designated sections are proxy server, object server, container server,
  account server and select middleware (complete list provided by community in
  linked json document).


Advisory Designated Sections
------------------------------------

None.

Functional Information
======================
:Format: RestructuredText
:Layout: 1.0
