OpenStack Interop Working Group Process 2017A
==============================================

:Status: Draft
:Replaces: 2016A

This document describes the Interop Working Group's working
process required by the OpenStack bylaws and approved by the OpenStack
Technical Committee and Board.

Expected Time line:
---------------------------------------

+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| Time Frame | Milestone | Activities                           | Lead By   |
+============+===========+======================================+===========+
| -3 months  | S-3       | Draft status                         | Interop WG|
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| -2 months  | S-2       | ID new Capabilities                  | Community |
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| -1 month   | S-1       | Score Capabilities                   | Interop WG|
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| Summit     | S         | Review status                        | Community |
+            +           +--------------------------------------+-----------+
|            |           | Advisory/Deprecated items selected   | Interop WG|
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| +1 month   | S+1       | Self-testing                         | Vendors   |
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| +2 months  | S+2       | Test Flagging                        | Interop WG|
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+
| +3 months  | S+3       | Approve Guidance                     | Board     |
+------------+-----------+--------------------------------------+-----------+

Note: The Interop Working Group may accelerate the process to correct errors
and omissions.

Process Definition
--------------------------------------

The Guideline process has two primary phases: Draft and Review.
During the Draft phase (A), the Interop Working Group is working
with community leaders to update and score the components of the Guideline.
During the Review phase (B), the general community and vendors have an
opportunity to provide input and check the Guidelines (C) against actual
implementations. The Review phase ends with Board approval of the draft
Guideline (D).

This section provides specific rules and structure for each phase.

NOTE: To ensure continuity of discussion, process components defined below
must _not_ reuse numbers in future revisions.  The numbering pattern
follows draft, section and sub-item numbering, e.g.: 2015A.B2.2.  This
requirement may create numbering gaps in future iterations that will help
indicate changes.

Guidelines Draft Phase (A)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting: S-3

A1. New Guidelines Start From Previous Guidelines

  1. New Guidelines start from the previous Board approved document.
  2. New Guidelines are given the preliminary name of "next.json".

A2. Community Groups Tests into Capabilities

  1. The Interop Working Group coordinates community
     activities with the Technical Leadership to revise the capabilities
     based on current technical needs and functionality.
  2. Capabilities must correspond to projects which are part of the
     "TC-approved release" as designated by the TC (see bylaws of the
     Foundation, section 4.1(b)(iii)).
  3. Groupings may change between iterations.
  4. Tests must have unique identifiers that are durable across releases
     and changes in grouping.
  5. Tests must be under OpenStack Technical Committee governance.
  6. The Interop Working Group will provide the test groupings
     in JSON format for scoring.
  7. The Interop Working Group will provide a human-readable summary
     of the Guideline generated from the JSON version.

A3. Interop Working Group Collects Recommendations for
    Designated Sections

  1. Designated Sections will not be removed without being deprecated in the
     previous Guideline.
  2. Designated Sections will not be added without being advisory in the
     previous Guideline.
  3. Designated Sections will not be added or be made advisory unless the
     corresponding code base is designated as part of the "TC-approved release"
     by the Technical Committee (see bylaws of the Foundation, section
     4.1(b)(iii)).
  4. Technical leadership may, but is not required to, assist the
     Interop Working Group with defining advisory Designated
     Sections for projects that have advisory or required Capabilities.
  5. Designated Sections may be sufficiently defined for Guidelines using
     general descriptions.
  6. The Interop Working Group will present A3.4 descriptions to
     the Board for approval.
  7. Technical leadership may, but is not required to, provide more specific
     details describing the Designated Sections for a project.
  8. Designated Sections will be included in the JSON Guideline.

A4. Interop Working Group identifies required capabilities

  1. The Interop Working Group uses Board approved scoring
     criteria to evaluate Capabilities.
  2. The Interop Working Group needs Board approval to change
     scoring criteria.
  3. Scoring criteria factors or weights cannot change after Draft is
     published.
  4. The Interop Working Group identifies a cut-off score for
     determining that a Capability is required.
  5. Capabilities will not be removed without being deprecated in the
     previous Guideline.
  6. Capabilities will not be added without being advisory in the previous
     Guideline.
  7. For the "widely deployed" adoption criteria, the size of the
     pool being considered will match the scope of the community being
     considered. Capabilities will be evaluated based on their use in their
     Component. Components will be evaluated based on their use in the
     Platform.

A5. Foundation Staff recommends OpenStack Components and OpenStack Platform
    Scope

  1. Foundation Staff recommends Capabilities to include in each OpenStack
     Component.
  2. Foundation Staff recommends which Components are required for
     the OpenStack Powered Platform.
  3. To support the Foundation recommendation, the Interop
     Working Group will apply the approved scoring criteria to
     evaluate if a component should be included in the
     Platform (see A4).

A6. Additional Capabilities and Tests

  1. The Interop Working Group will work with the community to
     define new Capabilities.
  2. Test grouping for new Capabilities will be included in the
     Interop Working Group documents.
  3. The Interop Working Group will publish a list of missing
     Capabilities and Capabilities with inadequate test coverage.

A7. The Interop Working Group creates recommendation for Draft.

  1. The Interoper Working Group coordinates activities to create
     the Guideline draft.
  2. The Interop Working Group may choose to ignore recommendations
     with documented justification.

Guidelines Review Phase (B)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting: Summit

B1. All Reference Artifacts are reviewed via Gerrit

  1. Draft Guideline
  2. Designated sections
  3. Test-Capability groupings
  4. Flagged Test List
  5. Capability Scoring criteria and weights
  6. May not be in Gerrit: Working materials (spreadsheets, etc)

B2. Presentation of Draft Guidelines for Review

  1. The Interop Working Group will present Draft Guidelines to
     the Board for review.
  2. The Interop Working Group will distribute Draft Guidelines
     to the community for review.
  3. Foundation Staff will provide Draft Guidelines to vendors for review.
  4. A link to the Gerrit document must be provided with the review materials.

B3. Changes to Guideline made by Gerrit Review Process

  1. Community discussion including vendors must go through Gerrit.
  2. All changes to draft must go through Gerrit process.
  3. The Interop Working Group will proxy for users who do not
     participate in the Gerrit process with attribution.

B4. For Gerrit reviews, Interop Working Group Co-Chairs act as
    Joint PTLs

  1. Interop Working Group Co-Chairs serve as "core" reviewers (+2).
  2. Requests for changes must be submitted as patches by the requesting
     party.
  3. Interop Working Group members may proxy change requests as
     long as the requesting party is explicitly acknowledged.
  4. One Interop Working Group Co-Chair must be Board member.
  5. One Interop Working Group Co-Chair will be elected by the
     Interop Working Group. Election quorum is composed of
     attendees present during the election meeting.
  6. Additional core reviewers (+2) can be appointed by Co-Chairs.
  7. Election meetings must be posted at least one meeting prior.

Community Review & Vendor Self-Test (C)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting: S and continues past S+3

C1. Vendor Self-Tests

  1. Vendors are responsible for executing tests identified by the
     Interop Working Group.
  2. The Foundation may, but is not required to, provide tooling for
     running tests.
  3. The Foundation may, but is not required to, define a required
     reporting format.
  4. Self-test results may be published by Vendors in advance of Foundation
     review, but must be clearly labeled as "Unofficial Results - Not Yet
     Accepted By The OpenStack Foundation".
  5. Vendors who publish self-tests MUST provide them in the same format that
     would be submitted to the OpenStack Foundation but MAY provide additional
     formats if they choose to do so.
  6. Self-test results cannot be used as proof of compliance.

C2. Vendor submits results to Foundation for review

  1. The Foundation determines the acceptable format for submissions.
  2. The Foundation has final authority to determine if Vendor meets
     criteria.
  3. The Foundation will provide a review of the results within 30 days.

C3. Vendor Grievance Process

  1. Vendors may raise concerns with specific tests to the Interop
     Working Group.
  2. The Interop Working Group may choose to remove tests from
     a Guideline (known as flagging).
  3. The Interop Working Group will acknowledge vendor requests
     to flag tests within 30 days.

C4. Results of Vendor Self-Tests will be open

  1. The Foundation will make the final results of approved vendors
     available to the community.
  2. The Foundation will not publish incomplete or unapproved results.
  3. Only "pass" results will be reported. Skipped and failed results will
     be omitted from the reports.
  4. Reports will include individual test results, not just Capability
     scoring.
  5. Vendors are required to submit a description of the system and
     configuration used to achieve the results.
  6. The Foundation may require vendors to submit specific details of the
     configuration and may also require use of a specific format for
     reporting.

C5. API Usage Data Report

  1. The Foundation will provide Interop Working Group with an
     open report about API usage based on self-tests.
  2. To the extent the data is available, Capabilities beyond the
     Interoperability Guideline list will be included in the report.

C6. Only Two Approved Guidelines at a time:

  1. Vendors seeking Foundation validation are limited to using the two
     latest approved Guidelines.

  2. Since past validations are respected, older Guidelines will be
     maintained as superseded for historical reference.

  3. Guideline status progresses as follows:

  :draft: initial work, pre-summit (S-3) discussion material
  :review: as presented at summit (S) for community review
  :approved: board approved, one of the two official guidelines
  :superseded: board approved, now superseded by two latest guidelines

Guideline Approval (D)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting: S+3

D1. Board will review and approve Interoperability Guidelines from draft

  1. Guidelines are set at the Platform, Component and Capability level
     only.
  2. The Interop Working Group will submit the human-readable
     summary of Capabilities (see section A2[6]) to the Board for approval.
  3. By voting to approve the summary, the Board delegates responsibility
     for maintaining test groupings to the Interop Working Group
     subject to the limitations described in section D2.
  4. Guidelines only apply to the identified releases (a.k.a. release
     tags).

D2. Interop Working Group has authority on test categorization

  1. The Interop Working Group can add flagged tests before and
     after Guideline approval.
  2. The Interop Working Group cannot add additional Tests to
     Capability mappings after approval.
  3. The Interop Working Group  maintains the test to Capability
     mappings in the JSON representation.

D3. Designated Sections only enforced for projects with required Capabilities

  1. Designated Sections may be defined for any project.
  2. Designated Sections apply to the releases (a.k.a. release tags)
     identified in the Guideline.
  3. Designated Sections will be included in the JSON Capabilities file
     to ensure a single source of identification.

D4. Guidelines are named based on the date of Board approval

  1. Naming pattern will be: 4-digit year, dot (period), and 2-digit month.


Functional Information
----------------------
:Format: RestructuredText
:Layout: 1.0
